# Room_Monitoring_System_Using_Z-Score
In this project, z-score analysis is used to find out whether someone turned on or off the lights in room, and send an SMS when this happens.
# Steps involved in this project
A) Here, LDR sensor is used for connecting to Bolt and gets monitored over the cloud. So log in to digitalOcean droplet and create a new folder to hold the files.
Note: If you are using VirtualBox or VMWare or a Linux system, log in to the system accordingly.  
B) Create a new folder and enter it using the following command.
mkdir Room_Monitoring_System;
cd Room_Monitoring_System;
C) Create a configurations file for this project, using the following command.
nano conf.py
After the editor is open, type in the following configuration parameters
SSID = 'You can find SSID in your Twilio Dashboard' 
AUTH_TOKEN = 'You can find  on your Twilio Dashboard' 
FROM_NUMBER = 'This is the no. generated by Twilio. You can find this on your Twilio Dashboard'
TO_NUMBER = 'This is your number. Make sure you are adding +91 in beginning'
API_KEY = 'This is your Bolt Cloud account API key'
DEVICE_ID = 'This is the ID of your Bolt device'
FRAME_SIZE = 10
MUL_FACTOR = 6
Note: You have to replace all the above value with your credentials. You can find the first four values in Twilio dashboard and the last two in Bolt Cloud dashboard.

You can set the FRAME_SIZE to 10, and the MUL_FACTOR to 3 for now. Once done, you can save the configurations file by pressing 'CTRL+x'
D) Now create one more file named room_monitoring_system.py, using the following command
sudo nano room_monitoring_system.py
This file will contain the main code. The algorithm for the code can be broken down into the following steps:

1) Fetch the latest sensor value from the Bolt device.

2) Store the sensor value in a list, that will be used for computing z-score.

3) Compute the z-score and upper and lower threshold bounds for normal and anomalous readings.

4) Check if the sensor reading is within the range for normal readings.

5) If it is not in range, send the SMS.

6) Wait for 10 seconds.

7) Repeat from step 1.

